Add policy management API (#42)
veraison/docs: api/management/README.md

# Services management

The API described here are intended to assist with the operation and management
of a Veraison services deployment. They are not meant to be utilized by the
services' users.

## Policy management

> Policies allow augmenting attestation scheme generated results on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Policies allow augmenting attestation scheme generated  Attestation Results (AR) on
```

per-deployment basis, by specifying additional rules to be applied to these
results. This may result in the change of the trust vector values (and,
correspondingly, the overall result status), and/or addition of supplementary
claims under the `policy-added-claims` EAR extension.

A policy is defined by a text document describing the rules to be applied by
the policy engine. Currently, Veraison only support the OPA policy engine.
Correspondingly, policies must be written in Rego language used by OPA. See
[OPA policy README] in services repo for details.

> Policies are automatically retrieved, based on the attestation scheme and

Reviewer: Is Line 20 necessary in the API document. This line and part of Line 21 is explaining the internals of the Veraison operation.

Author: How the policies are accessed for use is relevant to how they are managed. This does not go into any details however the fact that 
- policies are retrieved automatically (i.e. if a policy exists, it _will_ be used)
- they are keyed on scheme and tenant id
- only one version is "active" at a time

seem relevant to the users of the management interface.

tenant id for the evidence being evaluated. Currently, only one policy is

> allowed per tenant/scheme combination. If a policy is added for a tenant/scheme

Reviewer: For a scheme, if a tenant changes the policy should change ? So should tenant not be part of the API ?

I understand, for now, we have not used tenant in the API, if we want to retain the same, please add the required clarification in the interface, as `tenancy` aspect has been explicitly highlighted in the interface description

Author: My underestanding is that tenant id is intended to be internal and will be resolved based on authentication (i.e. an account is associated with a specific tenant). It will not be known a priori by the management actor. Authenticaion is orthongonal to this interface, so it doesn't need to be tied to a tenant.

combination with an existing policy, the new policy replaces the old one. This
also increments the internal policy version associated with the tenant/scheme
combination.

The policy management API exposes each scheme's policy via a unique resource
path in the form `/policy/v1/{scheme}`. It supports the basic CRUD operations,
typical to any resource management, in the following way:

- **create**: A new policy is added to a scheme via a POST request to its path.
- **read**: Policy can be retrieved via a GET request to its path.
- **update**: A direct update is not possible, however a policy can be replaced
              via a POST to the path for which a policy already exists. This
              would replaced the stored policy text and increment an internal
              version counter (the latter is the reason why a POST, rather than
              a PUT, is used).
- **delete**: True deletion is not possible, in order to allow retrieval of the
              specific policy version that was used to generate an attestation

>               result at a later date. To "delete"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              result at a later date. 
```

              the old one, effectively replacing it.
- **delete**: True deletion is not possible, in order to allow retrieval of the
              specific policy version that was used to generate an attestation
              result at a later date. However, all policies may be deactivated,
              resulting in no policy being used during verification.

[Attestation Results]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/internet-drafts/draft-fv-rats-ear-00.html
[OPA Policy README]: https://github.com/veraison/services/blob/main/policy/README.opa.md#rules

## REST API

### Adding a new policy

- A policy is added for a new scheme (with tenant implicit via auth).
- Optionally, a name for the policy may be specified via query arguments. If a
  name is not specified, the default name of `"default"` will be used.
- On success, the new policy object is returned, with Location header set to
  its unique URI.
- The newly added policy is inactive. It must be activated via  a separate
  request (see below).

#### Request:
```http
POST /management/v1/policy/PSA_IOT&name=base HTTP/1.1
Host: veraison.example
Accept: application/vnd.veraison.policy+json

> 

Author: Why? As far as the policy object is concerned, the rules are an opaque string. There is no differece between policy objects with type set to "opa" and those with type set to any other value. The interprestation of the "rules" field is outside the scope of this content type.

> 

Reviewer 2: how is the processor supposed to decide which backend to use?

> 

Author: based on the "type" field of the policy object. And that is only _if_ the processor needs to use a policy engine.

> 

Reviewer 2: wait, I sense a disconnect here :-)  By "processor" I mean the Veraison's management frontend, who has no way to decide how to process the inbound policy apart from applying some kinds of MIME type sniffing.

> 

Author: Sorry, my mistake -- I was confusing the forward path with the return path. Will add the content type.

hardware = "AFFIRMING" {
    // secured state
    state := bits.rsh(bits.and(evidence["psa-security-lifecycle"], 0xFFFF0000), 8)
    state >= 0x3000
    state <= 0x30FF
} else = "CONTRAINDICATED"
```

#### Response:
```http
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Content-Type: application/vnd.veraison.policy+json
Location: /policy/v1/PSA_IOT/340d22f7-9eda-499f-9aa2-5af295d6d812

{
  "type": "opa",
  "name": "base",
  "uuid": "340d22f7-9eda-499f-9aa2-5af295d6d812",
  "active": false,
  "ctime": "2023-07-06 00:00:00",

>   "rules": "hardware = \"AFFIRMING\" {\n          // secured state\n          state := bits.rsh(bits.and(evidence[\"psa-security-lifecycle\"], 0xFFFF0000), 8)\n          state >= 0x3000\n          state <= 0x30FF\n      } else = \"CONTRAINDICATED\"\n  }"

Reviewer 2: this doesn't look much more readable than b64 to me :)
But then, I may have already transformed into a bot without knowing it...

Author: > this doesn't look much more readable than b64 to me :)

Seriosuly? You can tell at a glance that the hardware rule is being defined base on "psa-security-lifecycle"  from evidence.  Unless you can decode base64 in your head (in which cased, props!), this is demonstrably more readable.

Reviewer 2: If I do:

```bash
jq -r '.rules | @base64d' < policy.json
```

I get a IMHO much better view of the content:
```rego
hardware = "AFFIRMING" {
    // secured state
    state := bits.rsh(bits.and(evidence["psa-security-lifecycle"], 0xFFFF0000), 8)
    state >= 0x3000
    state <= 0x30FF
} else = "CONTRAINDICATED"
```
than
```
"hardware = \"AFFIRMING\" {\n    // secured state\n    state := bits.rsh(bits.and(evidence[\"psa-security-lifecycle\"], 0xFFFF0000), 8)\n    state >= 0x3000\n    state <= 0x30FF\n} else = \"CONTRAINDICATED\"\n"
```
and since I am assuming the interaction pattern we are targeting here is that of an admin with a shell, `jq(1)` looks like a not so unreasonable expectation.

Author: Yes,  the problem is you have to do that -- conversely, this way you can immediately read the policy rules without any additionaly processing if you need to quickly verify something (e.g. that  a particular rule is present).  This is a lot more convienent, e..g, if you're  dumping the response inside a debugger.

Author: Note that you have the ability to post-porcess, you can get an identifical output:
```bash
$ eval "echo -e $(jq '.rules' < /tmp/policy.json)"
hardware = "AFFIRMING" {
          // secured state
          state := bits.rsh(bits.and(evidence["psa-security-lifecycle"], 0xFFFF0000), 8)
          state >= 0x3000
          state <= 0x30FF
      } else = "CONTRAINDICATED"
  }
```

Author: If we're talking about structured logging with associated tooling, robustness inot an issue, as they will handle escaping correctly. If we're talking about unstructured logging that is parsed with ad-hoc scripts, they you are right -- they scripts will need to handle escpaing correctly, and it a lot easier and safer to deal with basey64. However that's a problem with scripting over undstructured logs. For me, ease of debugging trumps that.

# Services management

The API described here are intended to assist with the operation and management
of a Veraison services deployment. They are not meant to be utilized by the
services' users.

## Policy management

Policies allow augmenting attestation scheme generated [Attestation Results] on
per-deployment basis, by specifying additional rules to be applied to these
results. This may result in the change of the trust vector values (and,
correspondingly, the overall result status), and/or addition of supplementary
claims under the `policy-added-claims` EAR extension.

A policy is defined by a text document describing the rules to be applied by
the policy engine. Currently, Veraison only support the OPA policy engine.
Correspondingly, policies must be written in Rego language used by OPA. See
[OPA policy README] in services repo for details.

Policies are automatically retrieved, based on the attestation scheme and

> tenant id for the evidence being evaluated. Currently, only one policy is

Reviewer: Is line 21 still relevant now ?

I am ok if you say, 

only one policy will be active per tenant/scheme combination.

As we specify:
`Retrieving all policy objects for a scheme`, this statement seems ambiguous.

Author: Yup, I've missed that. I've reworded that paragraph to talk about the active policies instead (also clarified that this is talking about policy usage during validation, rather this management interface).

allowed per tenant/scheme combination. If a policy is added for a tenant/scheme
combination with an existing policy, the new policy replaces the old one. This
also increments the internal policy version associated with the tenant/scheme
combination.

The policy management API exposes each scheme's policy via a unique resource
path in the form `/policy/v1/{scheme}`. It supports the basic CRUD operations,
typical to any resource management, in the following way:

- **create**: A new policy is added to a scheme via a POST request to its path.
- **read**: Policy can be retrieved via a GET request to its path.
- **update**: A direct update is not possible, however a new policy can be
              added and activated. Activating the new policy will deactivate
              the old one, effectively replacing it.

> - **delete**: True deletion is not possible, in order to allow retrieval of the
>               specific policy version that was used to generate an attestation
>               result at a later date. However, all policies may be deactivated,
>               resulting in no policy being used during verification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **delete**: True deletion is not possible. This allows subsequent retrieval of the
              specific policy version that was used to generate an attestation
              result. However, all policies may be deactivated,
              resulting in no policy being used during verification.
```

[Attestation Results]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/internet-drafts/draft-fv-rats-ear-00.html
[OPA Policy README]: https://github.com/veraison/services/blob/main/policy/README.opa.md#rules

## REST API

### Adding a new policy

- A policy is added for a new scheme (with tenant implicit via auth).

> - Optionally, a name for the policy may be specified via query arguments. If a

Reviewer: Ideally if the name is supplied as an argument then the name should also be used in the reference to the policy document, otherwise the name parameter is redundant from the user perspective!

Reviewer: I did not mean removing UUID. However if we are asking user to supply a name, which in all practical purpose a user is expected to provide, then as a user I would like to retain the name (in addition to UUID) for referencing my policy in future, otherwise, what is the use for user tagging a name?

Author: > which in all practical purpose a user is expected to provide

In what sense? the parameter is cliearly specifiend as optional. There is no expectation, only an allowance.

> or referencing my policy in future, otherwise, what is the use for user tagging a name?

The name is not intended to reference a speicific policy (it is not unique) but to give it a meaningful label.  When a policy is retirieved, the name tells the user what the policy is for (without necessating the parsing of the rules, which, if the rule format is binary, may not even be posible without additional tools).

Having said that, it may make sense to allow filtering on name during bulk retrieval. I've added the optional argument ot the `GET /management/v1/policies/{scheme}` path.

Reviewer: Sure thanks !

  name is not specified, the default name of `"default"` will be used.
- On success, the new policy object is returned, with Location header set to
  its unique URI.
- The newly added policy is inactive. It must be activated via  a separate
  request (see below).

#### Request:
```http
POST /management/v1/policy/PSA_IOT&name=base HTTP/1.1
Host: veraison.example
Content-Type: application/vnd.veraison.policy.opa
Accept: application/vnd.veraison.policy+json

hardware = "AFFIRMING" {
    // secured state
    state := bits.rsh(bits.and(evidence["psa-security-lifecycle"], 0xFFFF0000), 8)
    state >= 0x3000
    state <= 0x30FF
} else = "CONTRAINDICATED"
```

#### Response:
```http
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Content-Type: application/vnd.veraison.policy+json
Location: /management/v1/policy/PSA_IOT/340d22f7-9eda-499f-9aa2-5af295d6d812

{
  "type": "opa",
  "name": "base",

>   "uuid": "340d22f7-9eda-499f-9aa2-5af295d6d812",

Reviewer: It makes sense to call this either just "id" or `policy_id` from interface perspective.
Format UUID is fine as type

Author: There are already an umber of "policy id"'s floating around. This is less ambiguous.

  "active": false,
  "ctime": "2023-07-06 00:00:00",
  "rules": "hardware = \"AFFIRMING\" {\n          // secured state\n          state := bits.rsh(bits.and(evidence[\"psa-security-lifecycle\"], 0xFFFF0000), 8)\n          state >= 0x3000\n          state <= 0x30FF\n      } else = \"CONTRAINDICATED\"\n  }"
}
```

### Retrieving a specific policy object

A policy may be retrieved via its unique URI.

#### Request:
```http
GET /management/v1/policy/PSA_IOT/340d22f7-9eda-499f-9aa2-5af295d6d812 HTTP/1.1
Host: veraison.example
Accept: application/vnd.veraison.policy+json
```

#### Response:
```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/vnd.veraison.policy+json

{
  "type": "opa",
  "name": "base",
  "uuid": "340d22f7-9eda-499f-9aa2-5af295d6d812",
  "active": false,
  "ctime": "2023-07-06 00:00:00",
  "rules": "hardware = \"AFFIRMING\" {\n          // secured state\n          state := bits.rsh(bits.and(evidence[\"psa-security-lifecycle\"], 0xFFFF0000), 8)\n          state >= 0x3000\n          state <= 0x30FF\n      } else = \"CONTRAINDICATED\"\n  }"
}
```

### Retrieving the active policy object

> The active policy object for a scheme may be retrieved by omitting the UUID.

Reviewer: I think, it will add a value, if we state an alternative example flow where what return code is returned and if (200) then what Body is returned, in case there are no `active` policies in the store

Author: This only describes the general idea, this does not desribe error condtions (neither do  similar descriptions for the other API).  Doing so would clutter this high level explantion. 

The formal API description (the open API yaml document) covers that instead.

Reviewer: @setrofim : A one liner stating whether an error is returned will help set the context more clearly.

Even in the components yaml file I am not clear what error code is returned for this specific case?

Reviewer 2: I agree we shouldn't add clutter.  This is just a protocol overview that should only capture the intended happy-path flow.  The details are in the openapi docs.

Author: We do not define the specific errors -- this is the same for other API descriptions. The error is implicit in the fact   this is REST --  if you request a resource that does not exist, you get a 404. This a general convention, and is not part of this API per se.
